The Canadian Advanced Network for Astronomical Research (CANFAR) is a computing infrastructure for astronomers. [CANFAR](http://www.canfar.phys.uvic.ca/) aims to provide to its users easy access to very large resources for both storage and processing, using a [cloud based](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cloud_computing) framework. [CANFAR](http://www.canfar.phys.uvic.ca) allows astronomers to run processing jobs on a set of computing clusters, and to store data at a set of data centres.

<Help> on getting a CANFAR account is available from the canfarhelp@nrc.gc.ca. These wiki pages provide help on getting started on using CANFAR. If you are a CANFAR user and want to make changes to this manual you can! just log in to the wiki using your CADC username and password. You must be a CANFAR member to get access to this system.

Imagine you have a processing intensive analysis that must be run on imaging data as observations are acquired, but once the processing is completed your computing needs decrease. The CANFAR system allows you to create a computing environment (a [Virtual Machine](Virtual Machine "wikilink")) that we will deploy on a computer cluster. The number of instances of your VM that will be started grows to meet your current need. When the computing is done, the VMs are shutdown and the computing resources are freed for other users. The VM approach ensures that the software you want to run is available regardless of the *grid* or *cluster* installation where your analysis is conducted.

A major advantage of grid computing comes when the networks between the computing power and the storage are sufficiently high capacity that the large volume of data used during many astronomy processing steps will not be a bottle neck. Tuning networks between the astronomers desktop and the storage facility can be an intractable problem. Tuning the network between the computing grid and the data storage centre, while still a challenge, is more solvable.

If you are in a hurry, jump to the <Tutorial>, it is a quick example on how to use the CANFAR system.
